# Creating and Storing Secret Keys

A secret key should be strong, cryptographically secure, and pseudorandom.

The next important step is to decide the minimum password length. An ideal key is a sequence of binary characters — a string of zeroes and ones, which is typically 128 or 256 characters long.

In Node.js, there's a built-in `crypto` module that is used to create such keys. This module takes the number of key bytes. Note that it takes bytes and not bits. Since one byte is equal to 8 bits, to get a 128-bit key, we need to pass `16` to the `crypto.randomBytes()` method:

```jsx
const crypto = require('crypto'); // importing the crypto module

const randomString = crypto
  .randomBytes(16) // generating a random sequence of 16 bytes (128 bits) 
  .toString('hex'); // converting it into a string

console.log(randomString); // 5cdd183194489560b0e6bfaf8a81541e
```

Since we need to generate a key only once, we can avoid writing such code. We can do that in the console.

Such an expression will generate a 256-bit (32 bytes) key and will log it to the console:

```jsx
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'));"
```

## Where to Store Keys

A key should be saved in an environment variable. To make this happen, in the root of the project, we need to create a file with the `.env` extension. Our environment variables are declared in this file:

```jsx
NODE_ENV=production
JWT_SECRET=eb28135ebcfc17578f96d4d65b6c7871f2c803be4180c165061d5c2db621c51b
```

In order to load this file in Node.js, we should install the `dotenv` module to our project and import it into `app.js`. Like this:

```jsx
// app.js

require('dotenv').config();
```

After that, environment variables from this file will appear in `process.env`:

```jsx
// app.js

require('dotenv').config();

console.log(process.env.NODE_ENV); // production
```

We can access these variables when generating a token:

```jsx
const { NODE_ENV, JWT_SECRET } = process.env;

const token = jwt.sign(
  { _id: user._id },
  NODE_ENV === 'production' ? JWT_SECRET : 'dev-secret'
);
```

We should not commit the `.env` file to git. Instead, we should add it to `.gitignore`

**Store your keys in environment variables. Only a certain number of people should have access to the `.env` file, so make sure to keep this file out of your project repository.**
